It's not fun to have your two ton
SUV's brakes hacked
just as you're parked in front of a ditch.
Okay, hold on tight. Hold on.
Because that's what I've learned
from Charlie Miller and Chris Valasek.
A pair of hackers who have spent the last
year developing a piece of software
that can wirelessly sabotage
this 2014 Jeep Cherokee.
It hasn't been altered in any way.
There are no devices attached to it.
But like many thousands of jeeps
around the world,
it can be remotely
hacked over the Internet
through a cellular connection
to its entertainment system
that would allow someone
to take over its steering,
its transmission and even its brakes
to demonstrate that, I'm
going to act as today's crash test
dummy and drive it on the highway here
in Saint Louis.
While Charlie and Chris hijack its digital
systems from Charlie's house miles away.
They wouldn't tell me what they had plans,
but they assured me that it wouldn't
be anything life threatening.
Remember, Andy, no matter what happens.
Don't panic.
It's not the first time I've driven a car
while it's being attacked
by these two hackers.
But in 2013, they were in the backseat
and their laptops were wired
into the vehicle
through a port in its back.
Now they're sending the
same sort of attacks remotely,
and I have no idea what they might do.
He's going as fast as I've seen them. So.
So first, we're going to turn the fan on.
Then let's turn the fan
on, see if even notices
are that.
Something just turned on all the fans
and AC and stuff.
I didn't do that.
The trick started small.
Oh, my God.
There was a picture of Charlie
and Chris in tracksuits
that just appeared on the dashboard.
But as I drove down the interstate,
things started getting unpleasant
and very loud.
You can't turn it down.
This is such a fun video.
You look. At me now they're.
Saying the air conditioning is blasting.
The music is flashing, and I can't see
anything because of the windshield wiper.
I've got to do it.
Do it. Kill the engine.
So we're killing the engine right now.
So this is part of the
story.
Actually,
I stomped on the gas,
but the jeep slowed to a crawl
at 43 miles an hour, not going out.
I turned on my hazard lights,
but I was still stuck in the right lane
with no shoulder to escape on.
Two guys stuck on the highway.
I think he's panicking.
He's like, You'll hear us in that radio.
It's so loud.
Guys, I need to accelerator to work to get
the accelerator lower.
It won't work.
You're doing this is dangerous.
I need to move.
You got to turn the car off.
Okay.
Now you should be good to go.
I drove by.
All right, I'm going to pull over
because I have PTSD.
Charlie and Chris have only tested
the full range of their attacks
on a Jeep Cherokee,
but they say that hundreds of thousands
of late model Chrysler vehicles
may be vulnerable
through a feature called Uconnect,
an Internet connected computer
in the dashboard known as its head unit.
These cars had units expose a particular
service that probably they didn't want to.
It lets you do things like query it
for information like the GPS
or the van or all sorts of things,
but it also lets you just run commands.
So you have to first break into the car
remotely over the cell network
and then move laterally.
If you want to do things
like send canned messages.
And those are the messages that we can use
to control things like steering
or the windshield wipers or braking.
They plan to release a portion
of their exploit code at the annual Black
Hat Hacker conference next month.
They've also alerted Chrysler,
which is issuing a security patch,
but they say a lot more needs to be done
to protect the new generation of cars
that are increasingly connected
to the Internet and potentially hackable.
You guys basically brought this car
to a standstill
while I was driving on the highway,
which I may never forgive you for.
And that was just like an experiment.
What do you think
is the worst case scenario?
We wanted to point out,
you know, to show that this attack is
has serious consequences for this vehicle.
And so we did, you know, attack you,
but we did it in a safe way as we could.
So we didn't want to get hurt.
Obviously, that's why we're working
is to make sure that we figure out
vulnerabilities, weaknesses,
get them fixed.
We're only we're only two guys
with one car, Right?
So, you know, we can't look at every car
and we want to release this information
because more people like us
need to be focused on this problem.
After their stunt on the highway,
Chris and Charlie still wanted to show me
a couple of other tricks.
Below a certain speed,
they can control the jeep steering
as long as it's in reverse.
Puppets, locks, mess with the speedometer
and of course, disable the brakes.
Okay, hold on tight.
Hold on.
Oh, is that getting out of that?
I think so.
However,
we're going to do it. Some caution.
That's how you drive in the Midwest.
New Yorkers know how to do that.